examples/apps/generic_client/README.md, before:

# Generic Workload Client

This is a generic command line client intended to work with any
workload application. The intention is to get up to speed quickly
in application development by providing a generic client that works
with any worker.

The command line client, `generic_client.py`, sends a message to the worker.
For command line options, type `./generic_client.py -h` from this directory.

```
usage: generic_client.py [-h] [-c CONFIG] [-u URI | -a ADDRESS]
                         [-m {listing,registry}] [-w WORKER_ID]
                         [-l WORKLOAD_ID] [-i IN_DATA [IN_DATA ...]] [-r] [-o]
                         [-rs]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -c CONFIG, --config CONFIG
                        The config file containing the Ethereum contract
                        information
  -u URI, --uri URI     Direct API listener endpoint, default is
                        http://localhost:1947
  -a ADDRESS, --address ADDRESS
                        an address (hex string) of the smart contract (e.g.
                        Worker registry listing)
  -m {listing,registry}, --mode {listing,registry}
                        should be one of listing or registry (default)
  -w WORKER_ID, --worker_id WORKER_ID
                        worker id (hex string) to use to submit a work order
  -l WORKLOAD_ID, --workload_id WORKLOAD_ID
                        workload id (hex string) for a given worker
  -i IN_DATA [IN_DATA ...], --in_data IN_DATA [IN_DATA ...]
                        Input data
  -r, --receipt         If present, retrieve and display work order receipt
  -o, --decrypted_output
                        If present, display decrypted output as JSON
  -rs, --requester_signature
                        Enable requester signature for work order requests
```

The `--mode` option is used only with an Ethereum smart contract address.
Currently only “listing” mode is supported.
This will fetch the uri from ethereum blockchain, do a worker lookup to fetch
worker details of first worker in the list, and submit work order.

If `--uri` is passed, `--mode` is not used. It will fetch the worker details
from the LMDB database and submit work order to the first available worker.
The Avalon Listener uses TCP port 1947, so the default URI is
`http://localhost:1947` .

## Using the Generic Client

The command line client `generic_client.py` allows you to submit
worker requests on the command line.

1. If needed, update the Ethereum account and direct registry contract
   information in `docker/Dockerfile.tcf-dev` and
   `examples/common/python/connectors/tcf_connector.toml`
2. Follow the build instructions in the
   [build document](../../../BUILD.md)
3. Change to the Generic Client directory
   ```bash
   cd $TCF_HOME/examples/apps/generic_client
   ```
4. Run `./generic_client.py` using the appropriate command line options
   documented here. For a list of options, type `./generic_client.py -h`

## Examples

### Echo workload using a URI
```bash
./generic_client.py --uri "http://localhost:1947" \
    --workload_id "echo-result" --in_data "Hello"
```
Or omit the URI if you use the default:
```bash
./generic_client.py --workload_id "echo-result" --in_data "Hello"
```

### Heart disease eval workload using a URI
```bash
./generic_client.py --uri "http://localhost:1947" \
    --workload_id "heart-disease-eval" \
    --in_data "Data: 25 10 1 67  102 125 1 95 5 10 1 11 36 1"
```

### Echo workload using registry listing smart contract address
```bash
./generic_client.py \
    --address "0x9Be28B132aeE1b2c5A1C50529a636cEd807842cd" --mode "listing" \
    --workload_id "echo-result" --in_data "Hello"
```

Commit message:

Fix Docker Examples
Docker examples are missing or incorrect in
- `BUILD.md`
- `examples/apps/generic_client/README.md`

The examples need to use the URL `http://avalon-listner:1947`
instead of `http://localhost:1947` for Docker.

Reported by someone trying out examples.

Signed-off-by: danintel <daniel.anderson@intel.com>

examples/apps/generic_client/README.md, after:

# Generic Workload Client

This is a generic command line client intended to work with any
workload application. The intention is to get up to speed quickly
in application development by providing a generic client that works
with any worker.

The command line client, `generic_client.py`, sends a message to the worker.
For command line options, type `./generic_client.py -h` from this directory.

```
usage: generic_client.py [-h] [-c CONFIG] [-u URI | -a ADDRESS]
                         [-m {listing,registry}] [-w WORKER_ID]
                         [-l WORKLOAD_ID] [-i IN_DATA [IN_DATA ...]] [-r] [-o]
                         [-rs]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -c CONFIG, --config CONFIG
                        The config file containing the Ethereum contract
                        information
  -u URI, --uri URI     Direct API listener endpoint, default is
                        http://localhost:1947
  -a ADDRESS, --address ADDRESS
                        an address (hex string) of the smart contract (e.g.
                        Worker registry listing)
  -m {listing,registry}, --mode {listing,registry}
                        should be one of listing or registry (default)
  -w WORKER_ID, --worker_id WORKER_ID
                        worker id (hex string) to use to submit a work order
  -l WORKLOAD_ID, --workload_id WORKLOAD_ID
                        workload id (hex string) for a given worker
  -i IN_DATA [IN_DATA ...], --in_data IN_DATA [IN_DATA ...]
                        Input data
  -r, --receipt         If present, retrieve and display work order receipt
  -o, --decrypted_output
                        If present, display decrypted output as JSON
  -rs, --requester_signature
                        Enable requester signature for work order requests
```

The `--mode` option is used only with an Ethereum smart contract address.
Currently only “listing” mode is supported.
This will fetch the uri from ethereum blockchain, do a worker lookup to fetch
worker details of first worker in the list, and submit work order.

If `--uri` is passed, `--mode` is not used. It will fetch the worker details
from the LMDB database and submit work order to the first available worker.
The Avalon Listener uses TCP port 1947, so the default URI is
`http://localhost:1947` .
If you are using Docker, add `--uri "http://avalon-listener:1947"`
to the command line.

## Using the Generic Client

The command line client `generic_client.py` allows you to submit
worker requests on the command line.

1. If needed, update the Ethereum account and direct registry contract
   information in `docker/Dockerfile.tcf-dev` and
   `examples/common/python/connectors/tcf_connector.toml`
2. Follow the build instructions in the
   [build document](../../../BUILD.md)
3. Change to the Generic Client directory
   ```bash
   cd $TCF_HOME/examples/apps/generic_client
   ```
4. Run `./generic_client.py` using the appropriate command line options
   documented here. For a list of options, type `./generic_client.py -h`

## Examples

### Echo workload using a URI
```bash
./generic_client.py --uri "http://localhost:1947" \
    --workload_id "echo-result" --in_data "Hello"
```

Add or change the `--uri` parameter if using Docker:
```bash
./generic_client.py --uri "http://avalon-listener:1947" \
    --workload_id "echo-result" --in_data "Hello"
```

Or omit the URI if you use the default URI (standalone mode) :
```bash
./generic_client.py --workload_id "echo-result" --in_data "Hello"
```

### Heart disease eval workload using a URI
Standalone mode (no Docker):
```bash
./generic_client.py --uri "http://localhost:1947" \
    --workload_id "heart-disease-eval" \
    --in_data "Data: 25 10 1 67  102 125 1 95 5 10 1 11 36 1"
```

With Docker:
```bash
./generic_client.py --uri "http://avalon-listener:1947" \
    --workload_id "heart-disease-eval" \
    --in_data "Data: 25 10 1 67  102 125 1 95 5 10 1 11 36 1"
```

### Echo workload using registry listing smart contract address
```bash
./generic_client.py \
    --address "0x9Be28B132aeE1b2c5A1C50529a636cEd807842cd" --mode "listing" \
    --workload_id "echo-result" --in_data "Hello"
```
